Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
Now that we've talked about OneTel and to tell tests let's look at a a real life challenge.
All right here we go.
You work at a large bookstore.
Your manager believes that's the color of the store walls affects peoples spending.
Previously your store had red interior and customers were spending fifty seven dollars on average with
a standard of $20.
Now the walls are green and the means spend all of the random sample of customers you selected is $62.
Has there been a significant over 95 percent confidence change in spending or spend.
So interesting challenge as you can see we have the confidence level specified and the numbers are quite
plausible Don't you think that's when you go into a bookstore if you buy one book maybe you're spending
like 30 or 40 dollars.
Sometimes books are more expensive than that sometimes it can be 50 or maybe even $100 but rarely.
And sometimes people maybe buy two books and therefore it goes up to 60 or maybe like 80 or plus and
therefore like the average could be 57 and standard deviation $20 probably could also be the case.
And now that we've done so many of these examples you should be getting comfortable with the term with
the notion of standard deviation and how it works and therefore you can just like imagine that distribution
in your head even though it doesn't have to be a normal distribution.
Absolutely not.
Because as we know we're going to be using it we're going to be the hypothesis testing we're going to
be doing it stems from the central limit theorem so therefore we don't really care what kind of underlying
distribution the actual data has.
The population has.
But nevertheless you can still kind of imagine the spread of your data and what the standard deviation
of $20 means.
All right.
So let's have a look how we're going to solve this.
Well obviously we stayed are a null hypothesis an alternative hypothesis.
So no hypothesis is that it has not changed and therefore the mean is $57.
And the alternative hypothesis is that it has changed.
I mean it's no longer $50000.
And you'll notice that this is different order done before.
Previously when we were working with these people that were always stating it's either greater or less
than and then the opposite happens here.
So it would go.
We would say How has it increased or has decreased.
And this is kind of like the interesting part that in our case.
Well first of all when you the way the kind of teacher is cool is that.
Has there been a significant change so they tell students to look out for the word in the problem.
Has there been significant change in Spain.
So if we if we were to say has it been a significant increase in spend then you would put greater that
greater than here and here would be less than or equal to if it was Siggraph significant decrease there
would be less then here and greater than or equal to here.
And there will be a OneTel T-test but because we have changed is it to tell T-test and output equal
and not equal to verb.
The problem with that logic is that life is not formulated in mathematical problems you when you're
doing business analytics that's the difference between the this is a crucial one of the crucial differences
between what they teach in school and what happens in real life in real life you don't get somebody
who comes up to you and says here's the problem I've written it out and moreover it's correct correct
from a national problem.
Can you solve.
Nobody's going to tell you what word is going to be here is going to be changed or increase or decrease.
These are things you have to decide on your own and therefore that kind of like approach.
Look at the problem and look at the word and therefore you will know it's a OneTel the to tell test
doesn't really work in real life.
You have to decide for yourself.
And in this case is a good example because you don't have prior knowledge you can't rule out a OneTel.
He says you can't rule out one of the size of his Shushan So put the distribution here.
So you cannot rule all you gonna say that.
All right because I painted the walls.
The balls were red now because they painted the walls green.
It has to go this way like if the men used to be here and now it has to go to the right.
It can be the case.
You can just rule out one tale because what if when you paint if you painted the walls green now it's
going to drop.
Now instead of higher spend is going to be lower spend.
So that's kind of the logic behind if you can rule out the one of the tells then can be the one tailed
test.
But in this case you can rule out one of the tails.
It could have been gone up it could have gone down.
The fact that in your specific sample that you say that that has gone up to 62 shouldn't be taken into
account when deciding between a to tell and a OneTel test.
The reason for that is well first of all you're selecting one sample is either going to go up or it's
going to go down in your sample.
And so you can see that that's like it just has to go one way or the other it's not that it for a fact
that it went up this is like it could have gone down in a different sample if let's say if there's like
no change could have been lower it could have been higher.
So it's not a really big deal that it's high.
That's shouldn't guide Dr your decision to OK is higher than the average.
That was so it has.
So then I'm ruling out this I know it's not the case.
You just have a sample and unless you have either the other kind of logic that would allow you to roll
out this one tail then you would rule it out but otherwise because you don't have that kind of internal
knowledge of or just principle like there's a law of physics when you for instance when you increase
something it has to increase.
Well in that case like when you increase if there if there is a law of physics that when you paint walls
green spending increases then you can rule it out because there is no absolutely zero chance that it
could decrease that the spend critique but because there's no such law of physics or there's no no 100
percent guarantee that it couldn't have decreased You cannot rule out the to tell us.
So it's a very gray area.
It's a very kind of like judgment call and as moral as we saw it's it's easier to prove something in
a OneTel than a tale to tell.
So people sometimes are susceptible like prone to do OneTel test but in this case it's obvious that
you have to do to tell tales because there is no prior knowledge.
There's no there's no way to just rule this out.
And morally even if you saw like a statistic like noncitizen like that overall when people paint their
stores and green spend increases while maybe your store is special Maybe you have special customers
maybe you have maybe yours you like you were in a different industry or something like that so.
Always always consider these things and be careful about what to tell them.
So in this case we're running a total test and that's reflected in how we've stated the hypothesis.
All right so the next stop will nexts mechanics X-Fi right out.
I mean how salvation's just draw them up here so it's easier to operate.
You're probably so used to this image by now.
Next we're going to calculate our mean of our sample sampling distribution.
So this is our sampling distribution.
I mean a sampling distributions equal to I mean as according to the central limit theorem also quintessential
him at them standardization or sampling distribution is the salvation of our population which we know
the square root of and equals 20 divided by square of 80 because 80 is what 80 is our sample size here
goes two point 24.
So let's plot our value that we've extracted the solid or the sample mean that we have observed 62 So
let's say somewhere here it is greater than say somewhere here.
These are mean and let's count that I was at score everything as we saw in simple hypothesis testing.
Very straightforward stuff.
So Zed equals eggs bar minus mu Sigma you x by Sigma X bar.
There we go calculate That's two point twenty three.
OK.
So that's a good start.
So right away by now from all the experience that you have already with these problems you should be
able to tell how are we going here.
You know what what is the what is going to be the value in terms of the P-value because you can see
those two point twenty three.
So it means one to everybody right.
So it's 2:02 two standard deviations away.
So if we look at the Zad table that we bring it up here that table two point twenty three two point
two three there is.
So 9 8 7 1 and we can calculate 1 minus 0.9 and 1 because 987 on this side we need this side equals
0.01 to 9.
By the way a quick tip if you don't want to do that calculation then you can just look at this and remember
it's symmetrical with this region symmetrical so you can just look at this and then it will be the same
on that side just you just need to look for the minus what is at minus two point twenty three.
So if you go minus two point two three zero point zero 8:59 exactly same results are just shows you
that calculation.
And OK so this right out there is our P-value and that's one point twenty nine percent.
There's a 1.2 percent chance that we would have picked this at random and I bet we did.
And so most likely.
So this 5 percent confidence interval.
And if you're doing a OneTel test we would rule this out and not in a to tell test.
Remember we have to divide by two so we have to say 5 percent divided by two is two and a half percent.
We have to compare to that.
And it's still less so it's still less so we still rule that out so therefore it's it's it's changed.
And it is harder to prove a OneTel test exactly for that reason because you divide by 2.
And so if this was for example equal to 4 percent we would have ruled out it in a one tailed test but
we wouldn't be able to rule it out and to tell test.
So in this case no hypothesis is not plausible as it's always is a very low chance that this could have
happened if the null hypothesis was true.
So therefore we conclude that it's not true we reject the null hypothesis and we keep the alternative
hypothesis because this is the only possible alternative to what we rejected so it has to be true.
So there we go that's how you do a to tell test as you can see everything is exactly the same.
Very simple based on what we've already learned this is a very very simple procedure.
The only difference is that you divide by 2 so you now compared to a smaller value and the let's quickly
have a look at how you do this through rejection regions because we discussed that there's two approaches
to Hypothesis Testing like over here you could have gone a bit of a different direction.
So is that rejection region same stuff everything is the same you've got up to here 2.20 three and I
was sort of calculating the value you're going to calculate the critical score Zed critical so you kind
of like reverse engineering a table a little bit you Kalgan the Zed critical at which it's a zed at
which is going to be equal to 2.5 percent 0.2 0.02 five.
So because you know it's 95 percent confidence interval it's a five point five percent Alpher divided
by two is two point five percent.
And now we look at our table or in our table there it is.
So here's two we look for basically in our table we're reverse engineering it.
We want zero point zero to five.
They're just beautiful.
So here you can see zero to five very very round number minus one point nine six.
So you just look at minus one point six and you can symmetrically reflect that here so it's one point
nine six.
On the other side.
And so that's why at one point the 1 9 6 and then you just draw those rejection regions so it's inside
the first and after the first generation just inside the second one so 1.9 six over there and we fall
into that rejection region that is greater than that critical.
Or if you're doing on the left would at that lessons that critical.
And so therefore you can reject the null hypothesis and you keep the alternative one.
So that is the second our second approach to doing this hypothesis is just change it up at the end a
little bit.
And why this is a good approach as well because as we discussed in this case you don't actually have
to look at the Zed table every time if you're dealing with a 95 percent confidence problem.
Then you can just remember that it's one point ninety six.
Do you remember we had 5 percent for 5 percent.
We had one point sixty five.
So for 5 percent you're tail we are rejection.
We just started one point sixty five and at minus one point sixty five somewhere over here.
So it's a bit bigger big.
And also it's not like all the way up to here it's just like a little bit bigger but simply because
that's how quickly the standard distribution normal distribution rises here so you get quite a lot of
values here so you in the here get between one point sixty five and one point ninety six you get the
same number of observations as you get from here to there to the very end.
But that's not the point the point is at one point for a one tail test and a five percent confidence
you would you just have to remember the value of one point sixty five and then just compare this value
get to one point sixty five in a to tell as you just have to remember one point ninety six and compared
to that value and that's provided you don't have to remember them just right now somewhere.
And that's where I should so it's just a bit faster that way.
And also it's kind of like a personal preference whether you want to calculate the value and assess
things from the point of a P-value but because P-value does give you that exact percentage of the likelihood
of that happening so a bit of an additional insight here you don't have a huge hit.
How does that score so you don't know.
All right what is what is the exact P-value for that but maybe you don't need it.
So it depends on how you want to approach this.
So there we go that's the two approaches to solving the hypothesis or performing a hypothesis test in
a two tailed test scenario.
I hope you enjoy this tutorial and hopefully now you've got this new skill in your arsenal and always
remember to look out for the formulation of a problem.
If in doubt it's always probably better to go for to tell Tezz simply because it's harder to prove and
is more general.
It's more generalized and it's just harder to prove so meaning that if you've rejected a null hypothesis
and a two tell scenario then you would have rejected it also in a OneTel test scenario and so you've
kind of done the more diligent thing you've done.
You've taken the more more the stricter approach I would say but yeah other than that it will depend
on the wording of your problem but the actual business scenario that you're exploring.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's Tauriel and I look forward to seeing ex them until then
have analyzing.